well we went deep into treatment last
time and we've been dancing around it
this conversation as well I think before
we proceed it's important we we cover
off what that is and you've talked about
the glutamine and the glucose
so let's just and again this comes back
to the fact that all cancers are treated
the same under this Theory so it doesn't
matter what kind of cancer example we
use here let's just call it cancer
so somebody has cancer and they want to
take on this quote-unquote alternative
treatment how do they begin I I so
you're 100 right I saw a lot of the
comments saying oh he talks about this
but where do you go
yes where do you go and you know where
they go they go to Dana Farber MD
Anderson and Sloan Kettering and Moffat
Kansas sir Fred Hutch cancer center and
all these different the James you name
it they go there and they say I want
metamor holy there's no no evidence to
support metabolic therapy
so where where are these poor folks
going to go I mean they should be
banging the doors down in their hospital
and say I want metabolic therapy uh and
then they get belittled and and and uh
ridiculed uh and they and they they get
a blind cold shoulder I mean this is
nuts uh why are they doing it and
they're all you know I I agree with many
of the comments they're saying oh see
free talks about this but where do we go
all right why don't you try going down
to your local Cancer Center and see what
they say and they're going to tell you
what I'm saying makes oh I never heard
of this uh he he doesn't know he's not
this he's not that and so I don't those
kinds of comments are superficial you
tell me what part of the scientific
research that I have done that you find
uh is is is is not supported okay you
show me the evidence that what I'm
saying is wrong you show me a cancer
cell that can live comfortably without
glucose and glutamine then maybe I'll
say I really want to know about that
because I've been looking for that for
40 years and I haven't found that I want
to know about that so
um yeah so you you know you can oh
there's no clinical you can't do what
sea free says because this is no
clinical trials well what the hell why
don't you do a clinical trial and then
well we can't do it they can't do the
clinical trial why not well uh blah blah
no it costs money to do these clinical
trials who's going to pay for this
clinical trial and then they say if we
do a clinical trial we have to do for
standard of care first we need to you
know we need to poison and irradiate you
and then maybe we'll consider metabolic
therapy no no no no you consider
metabolic therapy first if it doesn't
work you can always go back and do the
crazy stuff that you do so um but you
know and I feel for the people you know
I feel I feel bad about this whole thing
myself I feel bad because because I
understand the biology of cancer we have
a pretty clear idea of how it works we
have case reports showing that these
things work okay and that why is nobody
doing it where are the clinics that
should be doing this why doesn't Dana
Farber step up why doesn't MD Anderson
step up why don't these big hospitals
that should step up okay be because
they're all chasing genes they're all
looking at gene mutations that are
largely irrelevant to the cancer right
so they go oh you've got the back of one
mutation you got the uh FDF listen
epidermal growth factor mutation you got
p53 mutation you got who cares the
bottom line is that they're using
glucose and glutamine to stay alive why
don't you go after the glucose and
glutamine the most of the mutations are
largely irrelevant so you're taking
biopsies of people getting useless
information and they'll go about
treating them with stuff that largely
doesn't work for for many many people
and charging them a fortune for it okay
which is outrageous you know you're
charging I mean this is another outrage
this financial toxicity stuff I mean we
published the paper on it is Criminal it
is immoral to to do that to people I
mean if you're treating them with
something and they and they get sick and
they die and then you charge them all
this extra money for this this is
immoral this is a moral issue here you
know don't get me started you know I
have to deal with this stuff all the
time it's unbelievable you know and all
I do is I make sure that the research
that we publish is accurate and then
they say oh you know yeah we got some
we've worked very very hard on doing and
setting up these kinds of experiments so
that we can get accurate results and
then when we put them into the clinic
like those few uh those fume MDS and
clinics that are willing to try to do
this uh they get really good results is
everybody accured or is everybody no how
many how is everybody cured and managed
using toxic radiation and chemo I mean
give me a break uh but we generally see
a better quality of life uh or overall
survival is improved and quality of life
has improved
um is there resolution
I I don't know uh how do we know
resolution I told you Jesse right if you
die like at 95 years old and you had
colon cancer when you were 30 and you
died from a heart attack and the colon
cancer never came back
I would say that guy was probably cured
but in the meantime uh how many good
years can we get out of somebody who was
in fact diagnosed with a a an aggressive
kind of metastatic cancer and I think
that's the success rate if you can
double overall survival relative to the
what's being done today then I consider
that's success would you consider that
success yes all right well there there
it is right so um so you have to then
try
to figure out well you should get guests
on here on your podcast and ask them
those kinds of questions why are you
guys not using metabolic therapy right
and see what kind of answers you get
it's very interesting instead of having
me on here why don't you go out and get
some of the guys running the the big uh
Cancer Clinic go get the head of cancer
biology down here Dana farmberg and the
get those guys in here and oh well we
did research and we didn't support what
Seaford said oh yeah well where is it
publish it show me you know for clearly
what you're doing is not working so uh
you know you have to uh you have to kind
of rake it up here a little bit and see
what's going on well I can see and hear
your passion and I feel the same and I
feel for people and here's the thing I
know
you can understand how you mentioned the
comments how somebody coming across this
information hearing us talk
they feel that little bit of Hope and
see that there is something out there
that could be a benefit and then there's
this extra layer of
the fact that they can't even try it
yeah so it's like they're it's almost
like
not worse but there's this extra layer
of insult because they know there is
something and they don't even have
access to it well you know that's the
patient yes they know there's something
else that could help them and they go to
their professionals and the
professionals say no that does not exist
or if it were important I would have
known about it or you get a whole slug
of different kinds of of responses and
then and then you heard some of the
comments the patients went in and asked
their Physicians they said oh no uh
sugar you can't take sugar away sugar is
essential I mean this is nuts I mean
these people are living in the Stone Age
for crying out loud I mean they have
very little understanding of the very
biology of the disease they're working
with whether it's the physician or the
nurse
and and I think that's not entirely
their fault and you saw so many very few
on College any few physicians at all get
uh tree uh uh training on the power of
diet and lifestyle issues to manage
chronic disease they're they're getting
um training that does not involve the
very essence of what they need to know
about how to manage cancer and don't
forget we have pop people who are told
you know you got to stop you you got to
stop eating carbohydrates in your diet
you need to lose a lot of weight
naturally to reduce your risk for
diabetes cancer in this and there's a
lot of people who don't want to hear
that either they say can you give me a
pill well the pharmaceutical would be
very happy to give you pills but the
problem is as you said at the beginning
it's us
okay it's largely us we we can we can
shoulder a lot of the bird if we put
ourselves in the position to get cancer
in the first place we can also take
ourselves out of that position and try
to help ourselves so metabolic therapy
is is is different than all other
therapies because it requires a
significant participation on the part of
the patient the patient if the patient
participates in the healing process they
will benefit okay so it's significant
what does that mean well you're going to
have to radically change your diet and
lifestyle in order for your body to get
healthy again okay and if you're not
willing to participate and do that then
you are prone to have this condition
persist and possibly kill you so I think
there has to be an education on the part
of the patient as well as on the part of
the on the part of the physician
coming back to that point you made
earlier about me bringing on these
conventional docks and
trying to discuss some of these issues
we're how we're talking about today
that at this point at least isn't
something I'm interested in arguing and
bumping heads and causing all this
negativity the the path I've chosen is
to bring on people like you and bring
light to these other messages and and
the fact is that this can come from the
patient up I know unfortunately for the
people that are that are stage four
right now they don't have a lot of time
no this isn't going to be
easy for those people or or maybe they
don't have time on their side to to act
in this way but
unfortunately with the platform I have I
think the best thing I can do is use it
to bring light to this information and
for people to learn about it and then
and then hopefully you mentioned earlier
banging on the doctor's door and saying
this is what I want because you've been
trying to do it the other way you know
bring light to this new information and
and it be and in a large sense it's
ignored and for somebody like me I also
don't have the science background like
you so I go talking with one of these
doctors it's not like I'd have to bring
you on and you'd have to get into the
science and yeah and be able to have a
knowledgeable scientific conversation
I'm the I'm the middle man who is here
to extract from your Brilliance I
completely understand your situation I
completely understand your response to
what I said and cancer is an extremely
contentious field it's been that way
from the very beginning
um because the implications are so
profound to who we are as a a a a as a
species who we are as a person it hits
it cuts across all of these different
kinds of things but then again when when
folks hear what I say they get like
fired up and excited and give them hope
and then when they go to their uh clinic
or their oncologist they get dashed down
and then there's this level of
frustration and so what do you what do
you do I I feel so bad and because they
say oh where where's the where are these
clinics you know where they are they're
in your local hospitals okay that's
where they should be
um why are they not the ones uh adapting
this metabolic therapy that I mean you
have these giant monster cancer centers
the MD Anderson's cancer centered and we
have Dana Farber Sloan Kettering I mean
these are multi-million dollar
institutions with all of this stuff
going on and when people get cancer they
go there and they say we have immuno we
have that's all based on the concept
that cancer is a genetic disease so
right off the bat you know you're
getting a treatment not based on the
concept the cancer is a mitochondrial
metabolic disease now I know a lot of
folks don't know that and um and they
get frustrated and I don't blame them
how do you think I feel you know when I
talk to those guys
um and most of the time they don't want
to talk they don't want to get involved
they don't they don't and if they do you
know there's another layer of of
research here that you don't know about
that I have to deal with and that is
those guys those scientists who say Otto
werberg was incorrect In His assessment
of cancer uh as a metabolic disease
because cancer cells are taking in
oxygen in just as readily as normal
cells therefore they they're they're
they're they're not uh what Warburg said
dependent on fermentation because their
oxygen consumption is very similar to
that of a normal cell and what we have
found in our research is the oxygen
consumption in the cancer cell is not
being used efficiently for the
production of energy whereas in the
normal cell it is being used so they're
assuming that oxygen consumption by
itself means that the cell is getting
energy from oxygen in normal cells that
is true and the cancer cells that is not
true okay and there's a huge research
emphasis showing how cancer cells have
normal oxidative phosphorylation no they
don't they have oxygen consumption
that's not linked to efficient energy
production now this is a layer of depth
that only a very few people could really
dig deep into because it's the it's the
foundational basis for what Otto Warburg
in the 1920s and 30s said that the
ability of a cancer cell to get energy
is compromised uh get an energy using
oxygen is compromised and I keep showing
you know can we cancer cells can live in
hypoxia without oxygen cancer cells can
live in cyanide cancer cells can live
with respiratory poisons they do fine
normal cells are killed instantly but
the cancer cell is not because it's not
using oxygen for energy so oxygen
consumption itself is a a is kind of a
um giving you misinformation
misdirecting you but over the last 10 15
years the cancer many people do an
energy metabolism and cancer they went
out and bought the seahorse instrument
it's a it's a very sophisticated piece
of equipment that measures oxygen
consumption and extracellular
acidification using indirect formulas
and things like this and they have
become uh everybody feels that if you
don't you need to do seahorse research
and all this kind of stuff and it's
giving the field massive misinformation
so
um uh and that's another thing that
nobody wants to really hear about that I
went out and bought all this expensive
equipment and now you're telling me that
I'm getting misinformation from it and
the answer is absolutely because we did
we did all the experiments to test all
this stuff and cancer cells don't live
in oxygen they they can grow without
oxygen quite fine and uh so that tells
us they're fermenting and that comes
back to what we did we interrogated the
cancer cells different from different
types of cancers and and just said okay
what can you guys grow on and we took
everything away from the tumor cells put
them in nothing and just soft water the
salt solution called buffered salt
phosphate buffered saline solution and
they're in there and they all die okay
great so let's let's do it again every
Cancer cell living in no and and just uh
salt water but phosphate buffered salt
dice all right great
um then we give them back uh dubecker's
essential modified medium which has a
few amino acids in there and put them in
there and they they uh they live a
little bit longer but then they croak
okay the cancer cells are all dead in
dmem which is kind of a cocktail of some
amino acids so they don't live in in
salt water and they don't live very long
in this dmem okay great now we know that
uh they they need something to live and
then we add back all the different
sugars and and amino acids and we had
everything back and then we try to find
out what they need to live all right so
is it always through cysteine
methionine we throw all the different
amino acids you know
um you put in glucose and you put in
glutamine and these things are
skyrocketing now they can also live on
some other sugar like sorbos but we
don't have sorbose in our diet we don't
have sorbos so nobody's going around
chugging glasses as a sorbose so but
cancer cells can live on that kind of a
sugar as well but we don't we don't have
that
um also uh what you find out there are
some other like asparagine they can they
can hang on a little bit with asparaging
but uh they they're mostly dependent on
glucose and glutamine so we can't find
any other fuels that can replace glucose
and glutamine so people say oh the
cancer cells can live on Ketone bodies
and fatty acids oh yeah take away
glucose and glutamine put ketones in
fatty acids and they croak just as fast
as they were in the sole solution now if
you take glucose and glutamine and add
fatty acids they can grow a little
faster because fatty acids enhance the
use of glucose and glutamate so we went
through all of these different
conditions Stripped Away everything and
just ask what these damn cells are
capable of doing under under stringent
conditions what do they need to survive
and we found out what they need to
survive they can't live without the
glucose and glutamine and these two
fuels work synergistically off each
other we've got a beautiful of paper
here it's unbelievable we're going to be
publishing this in a not too distant
future this is how this is how the two
fuels are driving the Beast you know we
we have them they're straight shots
through these two Pathways feed off of
each other allowing those tumor cells to
survive and um you got to shut the two
fuels down together you take can't take
away one because they kind of hang on
with the other you hit that one and they
hang on with the other you got to hit
those two fuels together and force the
body into a restricted ketogenic
situation because they can't burn
ketones you need a good mitochondria to
burn ketones cancer cells cannot burn
ketones so when you hear all this crap
about oh no okay some cancers no they
can't we tested them they can't you show
me the evidence that a tumor cell can
burn ketones in the absence of glucose
and glutamine my hat's off to you
because I haven't been able to find it
so when you start to restrict everything
down you know what these cells have to
have to survive and if you know what
they have to have to survive they need
energy and they need metabolites to grow
and those two fuels give the cancer cell
everything that it needs and it can't
use other things in the environment so
The Logical way to manage cancer is to
take away the two absolutely required
fuels and transition the body over to
fuels that the tumor cells can't use and
you will annihilate for the majority
majority of cancers are all suffering
from the same can you believe this what
I just told you can you can you
comprehend what I just said
so yes it's unbelievable and then go
down go down to your local Cancer Clinic
and explain that to them and then you're
giving them the paper you say listen
here's the evidence that I just what I
just said and they look at it oh wow you
know I was really really good I'm gonna
I'll I'll read this and I'll get back to
you and then we'll get back to you so um
not never but you know most of them they
look at it you might as well be whoa
what is this oh I don't know now look at
this guy this is a nice paper with a a
man who had a metastatic lung cancer he
had radiation and chemo uh he had chemo
uh it was in his lung and it
metastasized to his brain
and um he went through the standard of
care the cancer continued to grow and my
good friend Dr athanasis evangelio in
Greece immediately transitioned him over
to a a calorie restricted ketogenic diet
which isn't really too bad at lamb and
olive oil and things like it was
actually kind of a Mediterranean diet
and this guy's alive nine years later I
mean he should have been dead nine years
ago right so uh well this is only an end
of one oh and of one you know uh what
about what about Pablo why don't people
read about these papers why don't you
read about this guy who should have been
dead eight years ago why is he still
alive and he's not cured but his cancer
is there but it's managed you know and
here's the papers everybody can go on
the web on Google and Google these
papers and read them for themselves
right this is not hidden behind some
wall of the medical school this is out
there it's on it's on the it's on the
internet
so you can people can read all these
papers and then they can read them
carefully and say well this is really
interesting
um but I don't know if I can use that
funny part of the problem is and this
ties back to something I was talking
about before but to further elaborate on
that is the time factor for people
because people aren't digging into this
knowledge base and and learning about it
before they have cancer it's going to be
people that have cancer they're on a
timeline and and then they still have
all the pressures of you know family
life and stress and and go go lifestyle
and and money and we could go on and on
so it's like I really feel for people
when they're just looking for
what they can do practically put down
for them because they don't they don't
have a lot of time and they're they're
exhausted yeah you talk about this the
fact that when people get the cancer
diagnosis their cortisol goes up yeah
and then they end up spiking their blood
sugar which is feeding the cancer like
it's there is a lot against people and
that's why this conversation this is why
I wanted you back on again because we
just the best thing I think me and you
can do is get this information out to
people
and try and guide them and as there's
clinics give people the knowledge of
where these clinics are because you know
well I'm a middleman to help deliver the
information you're the scientist and
this is what we can do well I think the
clinics are the ones that you have and
everybody's uh major city those are the
clinics that should be adapting this
because you know and they're but don't
get me wrong there are metabolic therapy
clinics that are starting I know there's
one in Switzerland I know there might be
one in Arizona
um but they're not there yet there's no
place that you can go when people say oh
he talks about this but where do we go
um go go to your local hospital ask them
about it then they say well I never
heard of this and so it's I feel bad for
the poor patient because the patient
here's what I'm saying there's here
there is hope here there is a way to
manage this disease without toxicity
that could be quite effective in keeping
people alive a lot longer but yet when
they want a professional guidance on
this there's no this where where do you
go okay
um yeah I've been able to do it on one
or two three four five case reports and
um you know that our our canine paper
just came out so
um
this one here that that everybody's been
talking about you know how is it
possible that you could use a resolution
of of malignant Mast canine mast cell
tumor using ketogenic metabolic therapy
alone no chemicals no radiation nothing
and this dog is fine and you can look at
the pictures of the dog and you can see
how clear and that's another thing
um in these major hospitals when you
treat cancer you like to stay oh I
looked at all the the the heat Maps the
medical the gene readouts I looked at
the mutations and I looked at this and I
looked at that I tried to figure out in
our case we had nothing to study it was
gone resolution means no cancer there's
nothing left to study what can you do
where's your data to show all I can show
is the face of a dog that had a big
tumor now he has no tumor from a radical
change in diet and I see the same thing
happen in people too so a lot of it
Jesse will fall on the shoulders of the
pay of the patient themselves I give
them information they can read it is it
easy no it's not easy
um but it's there they have to spend a
little time you have to have some level
of scientific literacy uh to understand
this so it's not like going down to your
local oncology center and having them do
a biopsy and telling you have this kind
of a Cancer and now we're going to
Institute a program to manage your
cancer with toxic radiation and
chemicals and immunotherapies and car TM
you know all this kind of stuff and uh
or telling you go home and start cutting
back on your uh get your get your blood
sugars down your ketones up get yourself
into a state of in fact that's what we
we had with the Press pulse therapy
because I think people need to know
about that and this is the this is the
diagram for that and as you can see on
this paper you have the the red Guy full
of cancer he's got type 2 diabetes he's
got high blood pressure he's got all
kinds of stuff and then slowly move him
to the yellow where the cancer is
becomes less deadly uh less complicating
he starts to get a little bit healthier
and then we slowly degrade as you can
see the different kinds of drugs and
diets that you use and as you said
emotional therapy to reduce anxiety all
of this is part of the package for
healing so this is a strategy for for
healing and as I said before the body
will heal itself if you give the body
the opportunity to do this so it's a
planned strategy to manage cancer and it
will work and it does work the problem
is it's not yet ready for prime time in
any of the major medical schools and I
don't know how long that's going to take
but maybe your audience the people that
listen to this they're the ones that
will put the pressure they're the ones
that have to make the change I can give
you the directions the protocols and
everything else but if the hospitals
aren't using them then what do you do
the people have to demand it the people
have to want it I want to go over some
of the specifics on that last page you
showed in a minute here but first I want
to talk about
I want to show some empathy for the
medical doctor out there who is
practicing medicine in a classic sense
because we've talked about this on our
previous chat his or her hands are
basically tied because they have to
follow standard of care and as a second
layer onto that if they listen to this
conversation today and then go into the
hospital tomorrow and start talking
about some of the stuff we're talking
about today
they're gonna get laughed out of the
room like you know what I mean is it
enough for one Doctor Who wants to take
a stand to even do anything and this is
why again the patience yeah we'll see
how it all plays out hopefully hopefully
there is an answer and it does play out
in a positive way over time and
hopefully sooner than later but it might
have to come from the patients because
these classically trained dogs again
hands being tied and yes and their
colleagues just aren't gonna listen if
they bring this up you know it's funny I
I speak to so many Physicians uh
oncologists and whatever and um the ones
that
know that I'm right
are usually the ones that have retired
they can't say anything when they're
actually working but as soon as they
retire they come to me and says you're
100 right man I can support everything
you're saying but they can't say it when
they're working
and for the very reasons that you just
mentioned and uh and how do you change
the system
um this cancer system is broken it's a
broken system uh treating patients on a
a flawed theory of what the actual
disease is people are suffering and
dying uh we're using medieval kinds of
approaches to manage these these people
uh little kids and we're working on a on
a on a therapy now for a childhood brain
cancer that's far less toxic and more
therapeutic again we have a beautiful
pre-clinical system
um uh for this we can publish it and
then you go and try to get into the
clinic for the patient the person who
has a little kid that suffer from a
brain tumor and they won't use it so
we're going to have the same problem uh
up and down the path how do how do we
change that that's right we have the
science we should be in the right
direction but we're not doing it so why
are we not doing it and then you have to
kind of dig deeper and a lot of it has
to do
um uh with something other than the
science
you know obviously there's something
else going on here I mean if the science
tells us we should go in this direction
and we have the hard pre-clinical
evidence and case report evidence to say
that we should be going in this
direction and we're not going in that
direction
then what then why why are we not going
in that direction
so why are these poor folks that uh
listen to this get some level of Hope
and they go to their Cancer Clinic and
they don't get anything what I'm saying
and they get ridiculed and sometimes
told to leave and this is unacceptable
and I understand there are Physicians
that understand what I'm saying and they
wish they could do this but the system
does not allow them to do it
so what's the system who's in charge of
the system what who is this so-called
system okay there's nothing being
suppressed here there's no conspiracy
here this is clearly there isn't it
there's I mean I'm talking you're
listening people are listening well why
is this not being done and then you have
to say there's something else going on
here there's got to be some it's not
it's just ignored it's not being
suppressed it's just basically why is it
ignored
what is wrong with the science that we
have shown uh year in and year out with
the success stories that we have well
you didn't do a big big clinical trial
how can we not how can we do a clinical
trial when the very people that would be
participatory in the trial never heard
of this know nothing about the biology
and you're treating patients with folks
that really don't understand what the
situation is who's going to pay for the
clinical trial right I mean you got to
think about the cost of the physician's
salary the beds in the hospital total
the the the uh the tests that we do to
Sure ensure that something is working in
the right direction and all this costs
costs money so who's going to pay for
this kind of of a therapy uh are folks
that have breast cancer all going to and
get their money together and say let's
do a clinical trial and metabolic
therapy for breast cancer
what they do is they run
um Susan Coleman pink ribbon campaigns
and everybody's out there you know
jogging and they raise like millions of
dollars and then they give it to uh Dana
Farm mdn these are the same guys that
are contributing to the problem in the
first place so uh so what are you going
to do uh I don't know maybe it's that's
beyond my pay grade so um but but all I
can do is present the hard evidence to
say that we should be doing this and if
you don't do it then there must be some
other reason for why you you don't want
to do this and the clinics are in the
major hospitals so don't say I want to
go to a clinic that does metabolic
therapy well go down to uh the James uh
MD Anderson go down go to MD Anderson
and say listen why are you guys not
doing metabolic therapy get the answer
to well we can't do metabolic it hasn't
been done a clinical problem they give
you all kinds of superficial things and
if they say well the science really
hasn't been established well oh yeah
where you show me the paper you know
poor patience doesn't can't deal with
this kind of stuff and shouldn't have to
deal with this kind of stuff I deal with
that kind of stuff you know but I'm I
can't I'm not a physician I can't treat
anybody I can't tell you what to do or
what not to do all I can do is publish
my research show that it works uh oh it
doesn't work on a mouse you know well he
said well those Mouse studies you know
they're they're not relevant these Mouse
studies oh yeah well what about the dog
the dog responded even better than the
mouse so your dogs are irrelevant now
too it go it works together on a couple
of uh uh
case reports of guys with terminal
cancer
I mean it works on them it works on it
works on people and dogs better than it
worked on any of our Mouse models I can
tell you that and all of our con all of
our data we're coming from a poor model
of cancer and we're getting results it
works so much better in humans and dogs
Jesse tell me what do you think about
all this I mean let me let me hear what
you say oh I've been saying a lot you're
asking me people have a pretty good here
are you I know you are you're asking
questions I'm stating my feelings too
and and guiding us here but
one thing I want to point out is you did
drop a hint there the fact that there
are a couple of clinics I think you
mentioned one in Arizona and one in
Switzerland so people can at least have
a little bit of a crumb there to do some
searching the other thing I want to
mention quickly is I've heard you talk
about I think even early in our
conversation you quickly mentioned it
these kits that you send to people if
they reach out to you and they feel
hopeless talk about who can get one of
those and what's in there I give them
because
um they email me and I I I have a kit
all it is is just
um you know basically telling people
that if you can get your blood sugar
down your ketones up uh you have a
chance to reduce the rate of growth of
these tumors and I I in fact our press
pulse concept that was I showed you
evidence for uh the glue the little
meter the keto Mojo glucose Ketone index
um and and that's another thing too A
lot of people come to me and they say
um oh I take a prick my take a little
drop of blood and I put it on the stick
and I put it in the meter and gives me
my glucose and then I take another drop
of blood and I put on the stick and it
gives me my ketones and I push a button
and it gives me the ratio of blood sugar
to blood ketones and we've published
what we think is the The Zone the
therapeutic Zone that slows the cancer
down and gives you an opportunity to
that I have plan out options and things
and a lot of patients or let patients a
lot of people will tell me that you know
I can't get my my CA I've done
everything and I can't get uh my my my
my my reading I can't get into the Zone
you're telling me and then you find out
that they're also being treated with
steroids and treatment radiation and
other things and all that stuff prevents
the body from getting down into these
critical zones of therapeutic healing
and um so that's one interference and
they struggle and they struggle and they
do this and they do that most of the the
people that I see who can get into these
zones uh don't have any chemo radiation
like all the guys that these folks that
I'm talking about
um they they were not hampered by toxic
treatments in the body at the same time
and then people say oh you know I've
been eating these vegetables and I can't
get my well stop try something else
um there's foods that Spike blood sugar
and then there's foods that like do the
same thing I know it's very hard believe
me I I'm not going out there advocating
people just drink water for you know 14
days or 15 days because it's hard but
but people can do it um and as I said I
can't go out and tell people and I felt
I can't tell them anything but I but I
can't say oh the only way you're going
to manage your cancer is you know don't
eat for 30 days and just drink water but
there are people that do that and they
do get success but that's not what most
people want to hear
um you have to have a therapy Guided by
professionals that will allow you to
help you get into those zones Miriam
calamian she has a service she's a a
diet diet nutrition certified person who
knows and helps many many she wrote the
many many patients get into these zones
she wrote the book keto for cancer
people must look at what they're eating
how much they eat the combinations and
then you'll slowly start to see getting
into these zones and then once you're in
the zone then there are non-toxic drugs
like these parasite medications that
really do a job on these cancer cells
but they don't work unless you're in
this metabolic zone so again it's a it's
a planned procedure you just can't go
out and take certain kinds of drugs and
expect again you just diet alone will be
very helpful it's the diet with the Dr
with the specific kinds of drugs that
Target glucose and glutamine
simultaneously that's the key you got to
be able to get your body into a state
that accepts the drugs in the right
combo and that's called working on that
dosage timing and scheduling and that's
The Cutting Edge right now so that's
where our money comes when we get most
of our research is supported by
philanthropy and private foundations
because they'll they're more uh allowing
us to do pretty much what what we need
to do to move the needle forward move
the needle on this whole thing and we
have the best people that work with me
for for years on these pre-clinical
systems and interrogating these cells so
once once we know and we put it the
package together we can train people to
do this and help them but you know
there's a lot of variables here Jesse
um and uh you know which we're trying to
do the best we can to help to help these
people and um and know that we're right
and know that this is going to help and
it does from what I see it's going to
help a lot of people but I feel
frustrated in not being able to tell
them go to this place if you want to go
to the clinic in Istanbul where they
have had some success success for
everybody no who has success for
everybody no place has success for
everybody but do we have a better
outcome than some other places
absolutely
will the future allow people to build
clinics that will treat people with
metabolic therapy maybe
I think it will be very hopeful I have
I've I've worked with a lot of
knowledgeable people that would be
wonderful in treating cancer patients we
have to have we need MDS we need MDS
that are licensed to treat people but
they need to be able to have the
flexibility to do uh to do this and
right now as you've clearly mentioned
they don't have the level of flexibility
to integrate these
protocols into a treatment for their
patients
if you enjoyed that clip press here for
the full episode I'll see you over there
and I have the science to say what you
should do but it's up to you to do to
determine whether or not you want to do
that the body will turn on the tumor and
dissolve it and eat it together with the
diet drug combination